: In the 1980s and 1990s, constructivism was gaining popularity as a theory within cognitive science that could act as an alternative to cognitivism. Constructivists believe that all knowledge is actively constructed by the student. They took issue with the fact that cognitivists rigidly viewed the mind as a computer, a metaphor which could not fully account for the diverse experiences that students have, how students learn developmentally over time, including misconceptions that form along the way, and the limitations of cognitivism to describe learning in more open-ended tasks. But the roots of constructivism date back much further, so let us trace the origins of constructivist thought.

  
While the cognitive revolution happened in the 1950s and took off in the decades that followed, some researchers (especially outside the US) had been investigating the development of the mind before cognitive science formally formed as a field. Perhaps the most prominent of these researchers is the Swiss psychologist, Jean Piaget (1896-1980). Piaget is often regarded as a developmental psychologist, but he saw himself as a genetic epistemologist (Papert, 1999). The term **genetic epistemology**, which Piaget used to refer to his work, may sound a bit confusing at first (indeed, it did to me), so it is worth breaking it down. Epistemology literally means “theory of knowledge” and it is a branch of philosophy that tries to address questions such as “what does it mean to know something?” and “how do we come to know?” The adjective “genetic” has to do with the origins of something (like genetics in biology). By calling the field genetic epistemology, Piaget is bringing attention to the fact that he was interested in the developmental origins of knowledge in children, when they first come to attain knowledge about things.

  
Piaget is probably most well known for his theory of stages of cognitive development. Through in-depth studies he conducted, beginning with his own children, Piaget found several stages in which a child’s mind develops. But of more relevance to the present discussion, Piaget described how developmental changes happen gradually by discussing how children construct their own knowledge. He posited that when faced with a new piece of information, a person can either go through a process of **assimilation** or a process of **accommodation**. Assimilation is where new information is understood in such a way that it can be incorporated into existing knowledge structures, called schemes. In accommodation, the person must _change_ their schemes in light of this new information. For example, when students learn about multiplication for the first time, they might assimilate it into their existing understanding of numbers and addition. At first, perhaps they will mistakenly perform addition instead of multiplication, but ultimately they may come to understand multiplication as repeated addition. On the other hand, when students are first introduced to imaginary numbers, they may need to accommodate by fundamentally changing their understanding of what a number is. Ultimately, the goal is to use assimilation and accommodation to adapt to the world. Constructivism therefore posits learning as a process of constructing knowledge.

  

According to Ernst von Glasersfeld (1990), Piaget’s constructivism can be distilled to the following points:

1.  Knowledge is not passively received either through the senses or by way of communication. Knowledge is actively built up by the cognizing subject.
    
2.  a. The function of cognition is adaptive, in the biological sense of the term, tending towards fit or viability;  
    b. Cognition serves the subject's organization