### What is a 'Social Imaginary'
I don't know what the future of society will look like so I'm going to use machine learning to synthesis and generate multiple artist's visions of where we're going so I can augment my design imagination with their visionary talent. 

>Remember Forward

What is the social imaginary? [The imaginary (or social imaginary)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Imaginary_%28sociology%29) is the set of values, institutions, laws, and symbols through which people imagine their social whole. It is common to the members of a particular social group and the corresponding society. The concept of the social imaginary is at the intersection of [[Anthropology]], sociology, philosophy, and media studies.

### Overview 

I aim to train and continually update 3 machine learning models using [Runway ML](https://runwayml.com/) and use various blending options to overlay images generated by the 3 models. Next using Adobe After Effects I aim to modulate parameters such as hue, opacity, offsets e.t.c. to create the effect of breathing and movement on the 3rd layer of (fractals generated from the 3rd dataset & model) using sound from [this playlist] (Add link) as the modulation source. 

**See the Concept boards & Datasets** 
[Pintrest](https://pin.it/7A5zuai)
[Artstation](https://www.artstation.com/sergiohunt/collections/1209171)

The 1 st on 1000+ images of various social imaginaries, scifi and fantasy worlds.

**Something Future** 
-	I-temporal
-   Sci-Fi
-   Cyber punk
-   Solar punk
-   Steam punk

**Something Present**

-   Meta-Modern
-   Modern
-   Contemporary

**Something Past**
-   Medeival
-   Tribal
-   Ancient

The 2 nd on 1000+ renaissance, baroque and classical paintings of significant historical & societal events. (Add Data Set)

-   Romantic
-   Renaissance
-   Classical
-   Renaissance
-   Romantic

The 3rd dataset will be trained on fractals generated using Mandelbulb 3d


### Who is this for?

-   Social Designers
-   Political Technologists
-   Social Theorists
-   Technology Designers and Artists
-   Game designers
-   Anthropologists, Sociologists
-   Worldbuilders & writers



### Core Theme 1: Imagination as the core competency of social designers.


### Core Theme 2: Babel and the Language before Languages

The Tower of Babel is a direct inspiration for the concept. According to the story, a united human race in the generations following the Great Flood, speaking a single language. The citizens create a city and a tower tall enough to reach heaven. God, observing their city and tower, confounds their speech so that they can no longer understand each other, and scatters them around the world.

This story presents one of the core concepts, **'The Language before languages'.** I use fractal generators and ancient motifs to explore the origin of languages broadly conceived - Music, geometry, symbolism, dance, art. What I observe is a myriad of expressions from an undividable source. Whether it be in the mosques of the middles east, the mandalas of India, the Shipibo of Peru, or the regalia of Japan. All expressions seem to be unfolding from a primordial nexus of language.

### Core Theme 3: Mimetic Theory 
> There is no other reason for buying pants with rips in them.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OgB9p2BA4fw&t=52s