---
what: #daily_note
when: 2021-04-24 
where: 
---

### Morning Writing


>Mystery not mastery

Word Dump

You will not find inforamtion about how to shoot an online course here. How to market your online course. How to create your teaching materials All of that and more is covered in Edu-Creator OS (Add link) Which this guide is bundled with.

  
"... Educator, Expert, hobyist... regardless of your backgroun if you've ever had the idea of creating an online but were hesitant of your own ability, the technical overwhelm, too much of a perfectionist or procrastinator to put your pen to paper, following each of the steps below will make sure that you at least get to a first draft. Over thinking is the enemy that this guide is designed to overcome. only until you gaze upon your dirty and slightly glimmering first draft, emanating the same latent potential and confidence of your future students, will I let you overthink weather or not your ideas, knowledge and wisdom are worth publishing. Until that moment, I ask you, dear reader to trust this process, your ability and experience. Gather whatever mood lighting, equip your desk and fridge with whatever resources you need and create whatever reality you need to achieve your personal state of flow... and make that first draft.
(For the online course pros and process maximizers reading this, I've left a summary checklist and process structure without all the motivational and contextual waffle at the end of this page)

Step 1: 

Learning out come 

